# Dev Container Features Development Notes

## Testing

### Run single type of tests for a single feature

```bash
just test scenarios "<feature-name>" "<scenario-name>"
```

### Running all test types for a given features

```bash
just test all "<feature-name>"
```

Consult run `just test` to get the list of all commands.

> [!NOTE]
>
> Not all features support all test types (eg. autogenerated or duplicate are least common).

## Syncing common file

Features contain some common code stored in the `library_scripts.sh` (for feature execution) and `test_scripts.sh` (for tests).
The files are kept in sync - each feature contains the same file (regardles if anything from the common code is actually used or not).

To verify is files are out of sync (and possibly trigger re-sync) run:

```bash
just sync src "<name-of-the-feature-to-read-file-from>" "<name-of-the-file-to-sync>"
```

(the `<name-of-the-file-to-sync>` for the `src` directory defaults to `library_scripts.sh` and for the `test` directory to `test_scripts.sh`)

The command above will compare all files from the `src/*` directory with `src/<name-of-the-feature-to-read-file-from>/<name-of-the-file-to-sync>` 

If there are any discrepancies, user will be prompted to sync or not.

## Building custom Docker images

There are 2 custom docker images build to support testing.
Once you make some changes, update versions in the [`justfile`](./image/.justfile) and re-build them by running:

```bash
just build-all
```

Then change all of the occurences of old images to point to new tag.
You can find the occurences by running from the top-level directory of this repository:

```bash
grep bachowskimichal/devcontainer-test -R *
```

Re-run local tests for features. If the test passes, push new images by running:

```bash
docker login
just build-all true
```
